We need to spice up our CLI
is kind of garbage right now.
I'm not gonna lie,
it doesn't really do anything.
So, like I said,
I don't want to, I'm lazy.
I don't really want to do
all that stuff by hand.
So I'm gonna use somebody else's code.
Somebody smarter than me,
made this thing called yards.
Which, let me go over there, GitHub.
Sometimes you'll go to the NPM and
there's like nothing here.
And that's just because they set up
their readme a little different.
So, go over there, GitHub, and
I'm going to use this thing.
This thing, basically,
if you read its description,
yargs helps you build interactive command
line tools by parsing arguments and
generating an elegant user interface.
Yeah, sign me up for that.
Take my money.
That's exactly what I want.
I don't wanna do this from scratch,
so we're gonna use this.
And this is really gonna be your job.
It's just coming here, reading
documentation on somebody else's code, and
understanding if you can copy and
paste it or not, for the most part.
And this is gonna get you
all the way to senior level.
And even beyond that.
[LAUGH].
That's pretty much what it comes down to.
It's just getting really good at this.
We're gonna install this and use it.
You can see that they have
an example here that uses Require.
I already said we're not using Require,
so we're not going to even look at that.
Here we are, ESM, ECMAScript modules.
This is where we want to be.
And we want to do something like this.
So I'm going to just copy this code
here inside of our index dot js.
Actually, I'm going to delete this folder
that I have, because I don't need it.
Oops, not that one.
Go back.
Let's just clean up this
index.js file here.
I'm actually just gonna delete everything
in it because I don't want it.
Before I start doing the yarg stuff,
I wanna organize some
modules a little differently.
I want the index js file to be light.
I don't want to do anything.
I just wanted to import our app and
that's it.
I don't want any code in here at all.
So I'm gonna make a new
folder called source.
So in our source folder,
I'm gonna make a new command or
new file called command.js.
And here is where I'll write our code for
our CLI.
So I'm just gonna paste in that
yargs stuff that I copied,
which if I go through it,
it's just importing yargs,
which we have to install,
we'll do that in a minute.
This other thing that we don't know,
we'll talk about that.
And it just like, it does some stuff here.
So let's just save this.
And all I'm going to do is go
to our index file on the root.
I'm just going to import this file.
So I say import.
Source.
Command.js, that's it.
So if you're just gonna import
a file that doesn't export anything,
you don't need from,
you can say import and then the path.
And that's just going to execute the file,
all right?
This command file isn't
exporting anything.
There's no export in here, anywhere.
I just want this file to be executed.
Whenever this file's executed, and
we know this file's executed when
someone types in note in the terminal.
So that means when someone types in note
it'll execute this file which will then
execute this file.
So it seems kind of redundant but
I prefer my CLI just to have a one
line import at the top for the index.
And everything else is in
the source folder broken up.
We also don't need to put this hash
being at the top of every file,
we only have to put at
the top of the entry file.
Right?
So now you're thinking like modules
you have this you can think of modules
like a tree.
Right?
And you have an entry into your app,
which is typically one file.
Most apps have one entry.
Our entry file is index.js.
So we only have to put this comment
at the top of our entry file,
because it's in the same process as every
other file that will import from there.
It's a tree.
So we're good there.
And then now we have this Yargs thing.
So, let's walk through
what's happening here.
Basically what this is saying is
we know what process .argv is.
It's an array of all the things.
And the second thing in the array is
any argument that comes after it.
This hide bin function just
removes those two things from
the beginning of the array.
That's all it does.
That's literally it.
And then, we can register a command.
So a command would be something like this,
right?
So note would be our CLI.
A command would be something
that comes after it, right?
So in the case of npm, npm is a CLI,
install is the command.
Right, so npm has an install command.
Note right now in the case of
my code has a curl command, so
let's just try that out.
So now I'm saying if I type note curl.
This right here is an argument
to the curl command.
So it's something you can pass it.
In this case, it's saying,
fetch the contents of a URL and
it's just logging it.
I should be able to say note and
then curl, and
then anything after this is
going to be treated as a URL.
So, I guess it doesn't matter what I put
here, it's not really doing anything.
If I run this, it's going to break.
Anybody know why this broke?
>> You didn't install yargs?
>> Didn't install yargs.
And
you would know that because
it would say that, right?
It would say, cannot find package yargs.
That typically means
you didn't install it.
All right, so let's do that.
Npm install yargs.
Cool.
Now, let's run it.
Oops, I ran install again.
Now, when I curl it,
it's doing what it's supposed to do.
It's logging argv.
You can see it looks way different than
when we logged argv the first time.
That's because yargs is turning
it into an object for us.
It's formatting it.
This is why this package is really cool.
It makes us to where we don't have to go
parse some array to do all this crazy
stuff, and instead it'll parse it for
us and put it in this object.
It'll even like typecast things for
us if we ask it to.
Like this should be a string.
This should be a number.
This should be a boolean.
It'll do that for us, too.
It's really optimal.
And this is why other
people's code is cool.
We don't have to do anything.
Okay, so we log into argv.
This demand command thing just means you
cannot run note without at least using
one command, so
you can't just run note by itself.
Pretty sure it'll just
error out if you try.
Exactly.
It said you need at least one command and
then parse just means go.
Just okay, now execute.
That's all that means, right?
The other thing we get for free with
yarg is that we can type in note,
help dash dash help, and
we get a list of all the commands and
flags that we can use for free.
We didn't have to log that out ourselves.
And we don't have to maintain that.
Any new commands that we add
automatically gets added to this help.
And if you know anything about any CLI,
every CLI has a dash dash help.
Every CLI that you'll use will have this.
This is like the unspoken rule of CLIs,
that you must add a dash dash help flag.
No matter what.
So we get that for free.
But just a few lines of code.